DOCS-3274 Update warning about shell modifications (#1289)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SystemSettings/ScaleShell.md

weight: 60
---

The SCALE **Shell** is convenient for running command lines tools, configuring different system settings, or finding log files and debug information.

> The **Shell** opens with the root user logged in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Shell** screen opens with the root user logged in.
```

{{< hint danger >}}

> **Warning: the supported mechanisms for making configuration changes are the TrueNAS WebUI, CLI, and API exclusively. ALL OTHERS ARE NOT SUPPORTED AND WILL RESULT IN UNDEFINED BEHAVIOR AND MAY RESULT IN SYSTEM FAILURE.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion improper use of bold and all caps. emphasis is already in the hint tags used.
Warning: the supported mechanisms for making configuration changes are the TrueNAS WebUI, CLI, and API exclusively. *All others are not supported and result in undefined behaviors, and might result in system failure.* 
```

Author: @micjohnson777 
I know the text isn't optimized, but that's exactly how it looks in the Console Setup Menu, so we should probably leave that one as-is.

{{< /hint >}}

![Shell](/images/SCALE/shell.png "SCALE Shell")

> The *Set font size slider* adjusts the **Shell**'s displayed text size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion bold for UI elements
The **Set font size** slider adjusts the **Shell** displayed text size.
```

> Click *RESTORE DEFAULT* to reset the **Shell** font size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **RESTORE DEFAULT** to reset the **Shell** font size.
```

The **Shell** stores the command history for the current session.

> Use the <kbd>Up</kbd> and <kbd>Down</kbd> arrow keys to scroll through previously entered commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion use the icons for the keyboard arrows, but the words up and down are not on the keyboard
Use the keyboard up and down arrow keys to scroll through previously entered commands.
```

Edit the command if desired, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to re-enter the command.
Leaving the **Shell** screen clears the command history.

The **Shell* supports the <kbd>Home</kbd>, <kbd>End</kbd>, and <kbd>Delete</kbd> keys, as well as <kbd>Tab</kbd> completion.
Type a few letters and press <kbd>Tab</kbd> to complete a command name or filename in the current directory.
Right-clicking in the terminal window displays a reminder about using <kbd>Command+c</kbd> and <kbd>Command+v</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl+Insert</kbd> and <kbd>Shift+Insert</kbd> for copy and paste operations in the **Shell**.

Entering `exit` leaves the session.

> Click *Reconnect* to start a new session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Reconnect** to start a new session.
```

## Default Shell

> Clicking other web interface menus closes the **Shell** session and stops commands running in the **Shell**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion - bold for direct UI mentions not general function or feature, so in both cases this is talking about shell as the screen or is it about the feature/function shell? kinda murky so I suggest this:
Clicking other web interface menus closes the shell* session and stops commands running in the **Shell** screen.
```

Author: @micjohnson777 
Is that first `**shell***` supposed to be `**shell?**`

Reviewer: yes... dang typo.

[zsh](https://www.zsh.org/) is the default **Shell**, but you can change this by editing the *root* user in **Credentials > Local Users** and choosing a different option in the *Shell* drop-down. Most Linux command-line utilities are available in the **Shell**.

> Tmux allows you to detach **Shell** sessions and then reattach them later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki/) allows you to detach  sessions in **Shell** and then reattach them later.
```

Commands continue to run in a detached session.

## Experimental CLI

> The experimental SCALE command-line interface (CLI) lets you configure SCALE features directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion (directly modifies configure)
The experimental SCALE command-line interface (CLI) lets you directly configure SCALE features.
```
